# Final project 

### Now that you have seen many full research projects saved online as GitHub repositories do you plan to use GitHub for your future projects as a way to store code and data in the cloud and to share your progress with others? 

Yes, I definitely plan on using GitHub for future projects. I think the most valuable aspects of the GitHub platform are the ease of collaborating on projects, documenting workflows, and for learning from resources available from other users. The workflow of forking a repository, cloning it onto our local systems, and pushing changes upstream will likely be very useful. For my final PDSB project, the goal was to document data management, analysis, and visualization workflows carried out in R for my thesis. Though I was able to run everything in R Studio, it was not the most ideal tool for organizing this work, especially after many iterations and trouble-shooting problems. Instead, documenting this information in a Jupyter Notebook is more effective in making my methods reproducible and user-friendly since it enables the user to toggle between Markdown and Python/R code in each cell. Throughout the course, we learned best-practices for GitHub, specifically to organize notebooks and code in a single repository so that other users can easily follow. This could be especially useful in my new job, which involves collecting and sharing environmental and ecological monitoring data. A GitHub repoository is an ideal platform for sharing metadata and the datasets themselves as well as practices for data management and ideas for analysis. Again, simply getting familiar with GitHub and associated programs were extremely helpful over the past few months. For example, I used an R package called 'phyloseq' which is designed for analyzing microbial community data. The vast majority of information on this package, including the python code, installation instructions, and issue tickets were posted in a GitHub repository. 


### Did you project accomplish the goals that you set out for yourself in your proposal? If not, why? What was the hardest problem in your project that were able to overcome? What, if any, was a problem that you were unable to overcome in your project within the given time?

Due to time constraints, the goal of my project shifted from packaging functions for data analysis and visualization, to documenting this workflow in Jupyter notebooks. I was able to run and annotate code for visualizing fungal functional groups (guilds). However, I was not able to run a notebook that created a phyloseq object, generated a community dissimilarity matrix among all my samples, and generated an NMDS plot. Phyloseq is not compatible with R version 3.4.3, which is the default version. I attempted several workarounds for this issue, such as creating a new conda environment from which I could run R, and adjusting the file path for the IRkernel. Perhaps with more time (and expertise) I could have solved this issue. Although I cannot run the steps that use phyloseq, the code for everything is still posted in a notebook. 

### Do you feel that you've learned the skills necessary perform data analysis in Python, and to write your own program or pipeline for data analysis? What skills do you think you need to work on further, and where would you look to find more information about learning these skills?

I feel that I have the resources to learn data analysis in Python and through these resources can improve on my skills learned over this semester. I would like to work on additional coding, including writing functions and packaging, using Python. Resources I would use are existing packages on GitHub to use as templates and examples, as well as the written materials covered during the course, such as the "Think Python" handbook. 
